the rush the wave the ride as far as
South Vancouver Island surfing is
concerned this is surfers heaven but
these three surfers known as Ocean jive
are here for more than just the surf
they're on a quest to rid our oceans of
garbage we hold our adventure the ocean
job adventure it was a three and a half
year trip around the world by sailboat
to explore remote cultures meet new
people and study plastic and pollution
on the beaches of islands we visited the
journey started much like today it was
2003 two brothers Bryson and Ryan and
their friend Hugh were hanging around a
campfire at zomb Rio beach the three
guys were in their final year at UVic
and we're looking for an adventure a
look at our West Coast beaches Gotham
thinking about Beach litter when we were
out here we'd see all along the high
tide line plastic and I had grown up
sailing with my family in DC and Ryan
and Bryson grew up surfing so we sort of
had that connection we'd sailed we
surfed and we kind of put those two
together and thought up thought about
doing this journey around the world when
I heard about what they wanted to do I
told them I hope you have a camera on
board so the idea of a film was born
they spent much of 2007 to 2010 sailing
and surfing the Seas mailing tapes back
to their filmmaker Andrew who's been
eagerly working on a feature length
documentary called tide lines very very
satisfying feeling knowing that's what
we spent three years focused on is
actually a very very very large problem
out there
today they're taping a few final scenes
at zomb rio beach with plans to release
the film this summer it's a difficult
film to make because there are so many
other films that deal with plastics in
the ocean and on the beaches and this is
just a different take and what they
found out is it's scary to say the least
journey ocean drives three and a half
years out at sea they said they found
every kind of garbage you can possibly
imagine by the biggest culprit these
guys right here water bottles are the
single most common item we found
everywhere around the world hands down
more water models than anything else
they said it was especially alarming
seeing these bottles and places with top
notch drinking water like here in BC we
when we came home we found just as much
here as anywhere else in the world and
in fact if you weigh it by weight
there's often more on the beaches of the
west coast here they noticed most of our
pollution comes from old fishing debris
where other countries have a lot more
rappers and other litter from consumer
culture it's always amazing for us to
when we talk to people and get outside
our immediate social circle to find out
that people don't know about the problem
they're hoping to change that to make
more people aware of the issue by
bringing their documentary type lines to
film festivals and to a broadcast
audience small lifestyle changes can
make a substantial difference to our
oceans from sombrio Beach I'm Jen Moran
it's for the daily